There's a specific font size where
everything suddenly looks right. Not
just readable, but right, professional,
like someone actually thought about it.
Most people, they pick a font, they set
it to 12, and then they move on. But
they're missing something. Let me show
you what I mean. Now, look at this. Let
me open NWG look and just take a look at
what you're saying right over here.
Okay. SF Protext at size 11.5. Now, let
me change it to something like 11 so
that you can see what I'm talking about.
Okay. Okay. It's fine. At size 11, it's
fine. It looks readable. It doesn't
really look all that different. There's
nothing wrong with it. Now watch what
happens as I slowly increase the size
from 11 to 11.5. So right now it's 11.
Now it's 12. Just just look take a look
at this preview here. Okay. 11.1. Okay.
I hit enter. Can't see can't really see
a difference. 11.2. Okay. Got just a
little bit bigger. 34 and.5. So
immediately but you might not see that
much of a difference between 4 and.5.
But okay. Once you've been using it for
quite some time. Yeah. As you can see
over here, this is what I'm talking
about. As you change between different
sizes, different point sizes, when it
comes to decimals, you will notice that
the font quickly takes on a different
appearance. It's like the letter spacing
increases. The letter spacing increases.
And not just that, within the letters,
the actual characters that you're
seeing, they seem aligned to the pixel
grid much better. So, this is SF Protext
at 11.7. It just looks a little bit
bigger. But if you have been working in
in UI and UX and basically just design
stuff for quite a while, you will know
that it actually looks a little bit
different. And even if you don't, once
you start paying more attention to the
stuff, it just sort of it becomes a
habit. It just becomes something that
you start noticing because you're
actually paying attention to it. Now,
this is what I'm talking about when I
say the click. So, as soon as I picked a
certain decimal point, which was 11.7 in
this case, 11.5, 11.7. Okay, as you can
see, it got certainly the rendering
feels like it got a little bit better
even without touching any of the font
config font rendering settings. And that
is what I'm talking about when I say the
click. Certain fonts at certain sizes
just work. The rendering aligns with the
pixel grid. The weight feels right. The
spacing balances out and it stops
looking like default text and actually
starts looking intentional. Now, here's
what's going on technically. Okay, fonts
are designed at specific optical sizes.
So, when you scale them arbitrarily, the
rendering engine has to interpolate. So,
guess where pixels should go. Sometimes
it guesses well, sometimes it doesn't.
At certain sizes, the math works out
cleaner. Like something like 11.5 or
11.7, the strokes land on pixel
boundaries and the spacing between
letters feels more even. So, let me show
you between 11.3 and 11.7. Like
immediately you can notice a difference.
Like the text, the actual characters,
they seem more intentional in a way.
Okay? If you know what I'm talking
about. That is exactly what I mean when
you really have to pick out the right
size for a font if you want it to look
better than it usually does. The whole
thing just ends up rendering better when
you pick this sort of size. And this is
why the same font can look crisp at 11.5
or 11.7 and slightly muddy at 11 or even
10. Now 10 makes makes things just much
worse. Take a look at this when I say
muddy. Okay, 10. Yeah, it there's
there's a lot of fringing as you can see
over here. Fringing is basically like
the purpley things that you see at the
edges of characters and that doesn't
look very pretty. So the best size to
pick especially for a font like SF Pro
text is going to be 11.7. And not just
that but even in browsers like the
browser URL bar as you can see over here
let's say I type a website something
like youtube.com even this like the
rendering over here is supposed to be
pretty wacky because it's just not being
shown properly like it's at small sizes.
But when you choose a proper setting,
when you choose a proper size for the
font, that too improves immediately.
This is why basically you would be much
better off not choosing any random size,
but actually figuring out what size your
font is perfect at. Now you might be
thinking it's half a point. Like who
cares? Here's who cares your
subconscious. You look at a setup and
something feels off. You cannot explain
it. The colors are fine. The layout is
fine, but it doesn't look professional.
If you it look it just looks like a
default like someone just installed
stuff and didn't even think about it.
Nine times out of 10 is the fonts. Wrong
size, wrong weight, wrong rendering. In
fact, this is actually much better than
what it would be like by default. Cuz if
I show you my GTK config, GTK 3.0 inside
of GTK.css, you will find that I'm
manually increasing the font weight
right over here. If I were to get rid of
this, okay, you will find that the font
looks a lot frailer. By frail, I mean it
just looks weak and fragile. As you can
see, there's that more there's more of
that fringing that I'm talking about.
And it is it just doesn't look pretty. I
can even change the font to something
like Google Sands Flex, but that doesn't
actually improve it. If anything, it
might even make it a little bit worse.
Okay, it does improve it a little bit,
but not quite enough for it to make a
solid difference. That's why you have to
figure out stuff like sizes and colors
if you want to take your setup to the
next level. And this is what separate
ricees risers who treat it as a craft
from risers who just configure things.
The craft people, they pay attention to
details like this. They find the click
and their setups look better. Not
because of fancy themes, but because
yeah, by fancy themes, I actually meant
something like this. Okay, tada. By
theme switches and whatnot like this,
but by actually making stuff feel
intentional and considered. And this
sort of attention to detail along with
learning how to make stuff like custom
theme switches and more is what I teach
you inside of Hyper Accelerator. It's a
program where I have basically combined
all my four to five years of pricing
knowledge of racising hyperland and
other tiling window managers into one
program so that you can just follow a
step-by-step process and not have to
take a look at the hundreds if not
thousands of different tutorials out
there. So, if you want to learn how to
make setups like these on your own
without having to copy anybody else's
dot files because trust me, you and I,
we've both been there. We've both copied
stuff and it's always ended up breaking.
Even if it didn't break in a day,
probably would it broke in what a month
or two or maybe even a week. So if you
want to avoid all that, be able to
proudly say that you have made your own
setup as well as avoid all the dot file
hell that you have to go through
normally. You can click the first link
in the description and check out Hyper
Accelerator. As I just said, it's a
program that walks you through step by
step of how to actually make stuff like
this yourself. So this is the code part.
So this this keybind config line, let me
show you high code modules binds conf.
Okay, this is the key bind line and you
also have different bind flags like bind
eel. These are actually bind flags and
this is what they do, how you're
supposed to use them, why actually they
exist, so on and so forth. So you also
learn the principles instead of just
learning how to copy and paste. So if
you want that you can click the first
link in the description and check out
the program. Now how do you actually go
about finding the click? Well, I've
showed you already but let me show it to
you again in case I didn't show it
properly. Now for GTK apps, your file
manager, your settings or any basically
UI, you have to open NWG look. Okay, go
to the font tab. Uh, actually, it's in
the widgets section over here. Here, you
want to pick a font. Pick a font. If you
want me to suggest a font, just go with
something like SF Protext. This,
honestly, I've tried out so many
different fonts. I even have a font
switcher right over here. Yeah, I'm a
font nerd. And because of which, I've
tried like at least 20 to 30 different
fonts for UI. And out of all of those,
SF Protext is the one that looks the
best, especially when you set the font
weight to medium, which is 500. When you
do that, my god, this ends up looking
very very good. Among that, you also
have other fonts like Rubik. Rubic is
also a font that looks fantastic,
especially when it comes to rendering
here. Rubik looks very good. SF Protext
looks very good. Robboto, if honestly,
Robboto has no personality. So, if you
want your setup to have no personality,
you can pick that. I guess no pass no
personality is a personality of its own.
So, do with that what you will. Now,
another good font would be Google Sands
or Google Sands Flex. Out of these two,
depending on whether you like
playfulness more or less, you would pick
Google Sands. If you like playfulness a
little bit less, and you want something
more professional and geometric,
whatever font names, you know, terms are
out there. If you want something that's
more modern, Android 16 that you would
find in Pixels, then just go with Google
Sands Flex. Now, once you've actually
picked a font, make sure to choose a
base size. Put a base size for UI fonts.
It's most likely going to be 10, 11, or
12. Anything else is typically too big
or too small. Let's say you start at 11.
Okay, it looks okay, but then not great.
Now you add 0.1. So you just add 0.1.
Now it doesn't look that much different.
Check the preview. It just doesn't
doesn't look any better. So you keep
adding 2. Okay, something's changing. 3
4 5 6. Okay, four and five. Oh, hold on.
Four and five. There was absolutely no
difference. Literally barely anything.
Six. Okay, something else changed.
Seven. Seven is where the letter
separation really is dialed in and it
ends up looking much better. You can
even try eight. 8. Okay. Eight also
looks very good. As you can see, it is
it is especially visible in this ly part
for quickly. And 9. Let's see for nine.
Nine. I guess that works as well. But
more something more like 11.7 would be
better. So you can just select that. And
as you can see, it does make a
difference as you saw with this S thing
jumping over. That's it. In my
experience, fonts usually click at the
halfway point. So 11.5, 10.5 or 12, or
at specific values like 11.3 or 11.7. It
depends on the font that you're using.
You're just going to have to test out
and see which one feels like clicks the
best. For terminal fonts, same
principle, but you use a different tool.
So open your terminal config, Kitty,
elacrity, whatever you're using.
Honestly, Kitty is much much better for
font rendering simply because of the way
that it renders fonts. It's GPU
accelerated because of which its font
rendering just looks a little bit
better. Now, if I just show you this
comparison, okay, sideby-side
comparison, I'll just type the exact
same thing. And this is the foot
terminal, by the way. So, config kitty
kitty.com. Yeah. So, as you can tell,
probably. Okay. The terminal on the
right, this one's foot. The font
rendering looks a little bit I wouldn't
say worse, but it does look worse
depending on your tastes. Unless you
actually like frail, weak, and fragile
fonts, in which case this actually looks
better. But to each their own, right?
This one looks a bit fuller and just
looks like it's healthy and it's
actually being fed if you will. But
anyway, yeah, that's the difference. So,
let's open RT config. And this is what I
have so far for Jet Brains Mono Nerd
Font Mono. This mono variant is
something that I've covered in a
different video. But anyway, here for
this font, the perfect size would be 13.
You can pick 14. And once you reload,
yeah, it works, but 13 is honestly
perfect. Now here you can try with
different sizes. Something like 12.5.
But that just Yeah, this is what I'm
talking about when I say the click. Take
a look at this. Okay, now we'll just put
that back. This is 12.5. Sometimes it
doesn't click at the halfway point and
instead clicks on a whole number. So I
can let's say I just get rid of this.5.
Change it to 13 and watch as the line
height as well as letter spacing change.
Okay, I'll just hit enter, reload, and
there you go. The line height increased
a little bit. the actual length of the
characters that increase a little bit
and as well as the letter spacing, the
actual spaces between the different
letters, they shrunk a little bit as
well. So that is what happens. That's
it. So for monospace fonts, you're
basically going to have to figure out
the same thing. Figure out where it
clicks for your particular font. For Jet
Brains Moner font, that's going to be
exactly at 13. Even for the regular
font, even if not a nerd font with a
click for your way bar, you just have to
do the same thing as well. Start at a
reasonable size. Something a 14 or 12
would be way too small. So I've picked
16 here. Okay. You increment by 0.5 or
one. Reload and you check. The bar is
actually where the click matters the
most visually because it's literally
always on screen. If the font renders
poorly there, you see it constantly and
just get bugged about it once you start
noticing stuff.
And that should be it. Details like this
are what make a setup feel professional.
And as I've already mentioned, Hyper
Accelerator covers all of them along
with making something as slick and
beautiful as this for yourself. It's a
stuff that separates okay rices from
great ones. And if you want to build
great rises as well, you can click the
first link in the description and check
out the program to enlist some help with
that. That's it. If you like the video,
hit like. If you loved it and want to
see more like this in your feed, hit
subscribe and I will see you next time.
Stay rising.